Engage Cockpit CM/CD Documentation + Settings Section (#7790)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 17/umbraco-engage/getting-started/for-developers/loadbalancing-and-cm-cd-environments.md

## Cockpit

In CM/CD environments, the Cockpit needs to authenticate users across different domains. Umbraco Engage provides two methods for this:

### Method 1: Open Cockpit Button (Recommended)

As of Umbraco Engage 17, you can open the Cockpit directly from the Umbraco backoffice:

1. Log in to the Umbraco backoffice on your CM server
2. Navigate to the **Engage** section
3. Click the **Open Cockpit** button in the dashboard
4. If multiple domains are configured, select the domain you want to view

> 5. The Cockpit opens in a new tab, already authenticated

Reviewer: A suggestion to add punctuation and to make the steps a little clearer.

```suggestion
1. Log in to the Umbraco backoffice on your CM server.
2. Navigate to the **Engage** section.
3. Click the **Open Cockpit** button in the dashboard.
4. Select the domain you want to view.

The Cockpit opens in a new tab, already authenticated.
```

This method uses secure, short-lived authentication tokens. No additional cookie configuration is required.

{% hint style="info" %}
This feature requires Data Protection keys to be shared across all servers. See the [Machine Key and Data Protection](#machine-key-and-data-protection) section below.
{% endhint %}

#### Session Duration

Your Cockpit session remains active for 30 minutes by default. After this period, you will need to use the Open Cockpit button again to re-authenticate.

#### Logging Out

When you log out of the Umbraco backoffice, all your Cockpit sessions across all CD servers are automatically ended.

### Method 2: Cookie Domain Configuration (Alternative)

> If you prefer the Cockpit to appear automatically when browsing the frontend (without using the Open Cockpit button), you can configure Umbraco to share authentication cookies across domains.

Reviewer: A suggestion to avoid 1 long sentence here: 

```suggestion
To keep the Cockpit visible automatically, configure Umbraco to share authentication cookies across domains. This removes the need to use the Open Cockpit button while browsing.
```
